.TH ICTREE 1 2022 Linux
.
.SH NAME
.
ictree \- like tree but interactive
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.
.SY ictree
.RI [ option
\&.\|.\|.]
.I file
.YS
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.
.BR ictree
is a terminal-based program that takes a list of contents of directories and displays them in a pager similar to
.IR less
where you can fold/unfold directories and quickly jump between them.
.
.PP
It is useful to browse
.IR locate , \ find
or any other program output that is a list of paths.
.
.SH OPTIONS
.
.TP
.BR \-\-fold ", " \-f
Fold directories by default.
.
.TP
\fB\-\-separator=\fP\fIC\fP, \fB\-s\fP\fIC\fP
Set directory separator to
.IR C .
.RB \(oq / \(cq
is the default value.
.
.TP
.BR \-\-help ", " \-h
Print a help message and exit.
.
.TP
.BR \-\-version ", " \-v
Display version information and exit.
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.
Find something with
.I locate
and pipe output into
.BR ictree :
.
.IP
.EX
locate something | ictree
.EE
.
.PP
The same applies to any program that can produce a list of paths.
For example, one can use
.IR find
with
.BR ictree
to view current working directory in a nice tree-like format:
.
.IP
.EX
find | ictree
.EE
.
.PP
.BR ictree
can also take a file that contains paths as its first argument:
.
.IP
.EX
locate something > list.txt
ictree list.txt
.EE
.
.PP
.BR ictree
supports
.IR Vi -like
search functionality.
Extended regular expressions are supported.
If a pattern contains
.RB \(oq / \(cq
character, the search is performed by full paths of items instead of their short names in the list.
.
.SH COMMANDS
.
All the commands for moving in the pager resemble
.I less
and
.I Vi
commands.
.
.SS Moving
.
.TP
.B j
.TQ
.B <Down>
Move cursor down 1 line
.
.TP
.B k
.TQ
.B <Up>
Move cursor up 1 line
.
.TP
.B l
.TQ
.B >
Scroll right
.
.TP
.B h
.TQ
.B <
Scroll left
.
.TP
.B \(haE
.TQ
.B "<Mouse Wheel Down>"
Scroll down one line
.
.TP
.B \(haY
.TQ
.B "<Mouse Wheel Up>"
Scroll up one line
.
.TP
.B \(haD
Scroll down half-window
.
.TP
.B \(haU
Scroll up half-window
.
.TP
.B \(haF
Scroll down one window
.
.TP
.B \(haB
Scroll up one window
.
.TP
.B g
Move cursor to the top
.
.TP
.B G
Move cursor to the bottom
.
.TP
.B z
Put cursor at the center of window
.
.TP
.B p
Go to parent item
.
.SS Others
.
.TP
.B <Enter>
.TQ
.B "<Mouse Left Button>"
Fold/unfold selected item
.
.TP
.B <Space>
Fold selected item and move cursor down 1 line
.
.TP
.B c
Go to parent item and fold it
.
.TP
.B <Right>
If selected item is folded, unfold it; otherwise go to first child item
.
.TP
.B <Left>
If selected item is unfolded, fold it; otherwise go to parent item
.
.TP
.B /
Search forward for pattern
.
.TP
.B ?
Search backward for pattern
.
.TP
.B n
Repeat previous search
.
.TP
.B N
Repeat previous search in reverse direction
.
.TP
.B y
Copy selected item into X or Wayland clipboard (using this command requires
.I xsel
or
.I wl-copy
installed, depending on which display server is used)
.
.TP
.B o
Write selected item to standard output and exit
.
.TP
.B q
.TQ
.B <Esc>
Quit
.
.TP
.B \(haZ
Suspend ictree
.
.SH CUSTOM COMMANDS
.
It's possible to define custom commands in the configuration file (see
.IR FILES )
to open a selected path in other programs.
.
.PP
Examples:
.
.IP
.EX
# open selected path in vim by pressing e
map e vim "$f"
\~
# open selected path in a pager
# defined in $PAGER environment variable
map i $PAGER "$f"
.EE
.
.PP
When a custom command is invoked,
.B ictree
simply runs a program with
.I /bin/sh
and sets
.B $f
variable to whatever a user has selected.
.
.PP
Note: unlike
.IR Vim ,
it's impossible to use more than one character in a mapping.
.
.SH FILES
.
.TP
.B $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/ictree/config
Configuration file.
If
.I $XDG_CACHE_HOME
is not set, defaults to
.IR \(ti/.cache .
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.
.BR tree (1),
.BR find (1),
.BR locate (1),
.BR less (1)
.
.SH AUTHOR
.
Written by Nikita Ivanov.
